This profile sets minimum expectations  for searching and fetching patient documents using the [DocumentReference Resource]. It is compatible with the ITI-68 in [IHE MHD] specification.  It identifies the mandatory core elements, extensions, vocabularies and value sets which **SHALL** be present in the DocumentReference resource when using this profile.

**Example Usage Scenarios:**

The following are example usage scenarios for the US Core DocumentReference profile:

-   Query for all documents belonging to a Patient
-   Query for clinical summary information about a patient (access a patient's Continuity of Care Document (CCD))

##### Mandatory Data Elements and Terminology


The following data-elements are mandatory (i.e data MUST be present). These are presented below in a simple human-readable explanation.  Profile specific guidance and examples are provided as well.  The [**Formal Profile Definition**](#profile) below provides the  formal summary, definitions, and  terminology requirements.  

**Each DocumentReference must have:**

1.  a patient
1.  a code describing the type of document
1.  a status
1.  date and time the reference was created (STU3 requirement, removed in R4)
1.  an https address where the document can be retrieved

In addition it should have (if available):

1.  a business identifier for the DocumentReference (possibly generated by the transcription system or EHR)
1.  a document creation date
1.  a code identifying the specific details about the format of the document — over and above the content's MIME type
1.  the patient encounter date that is being referenced

**Profile specific implementation guidance:**

For a C-CDA Clinical Summary of Care (CCD):

-   The document type code is the LOINC code  [34133-9](http://s.details.loinc.org/LOINC/34133-9.html?sections=Comprehensive) *Summary of episode note*.
-   The format code is `urn:hl7-org:sdwg:ccda-structuredBody:2.1`
-   The https address may refer to a FHIR Binary Resource (i.e. [base]/Binary/[id]) address or a FHIR Document Bundle (i.e [base]/Bundle/[id] address on the server.

#### Examples

   -  [DocumentReference-episode-summary](DocumentReference-episode-summary.html) Retrieve a URL for an episode summary note (CCD).

[DocumentReference Resource]: http://hl7.org/fhir/documentreference.html
[IHE MHD]: http://ihe.net/uploadedFiles/Documents/ITI/IHE_ITI_Suppl_MHD.pdf
