
- To comply with Executive Order 14168, the following changes were made.  Note that many of them are substantive and breaking changes for clients and servers:
   - Make `Patient.gender` optional for the [US Core Patient Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.html).
   - Remove "Name to Use" USCDI mapping guidance.
   - Remove USCDI mapping and guidance for the [US Core Observation Sexual Orientation Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-sexual-orientation.html).
   - Remove the [US Core Birth Sex Extension](StructureDefinition-us-core-birthsex.html) from the US Core Patient Profile amd guidance.
   - Deprecate the [US Core Gender Identity Extension](StructureDefinition-us-core-genderIdentity.html) and remove it from the US Core Profile, USCDI mapping, and guidance.
   - Remove the [Individual Pronouns Extension](http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/individual-pronouns) from the US Core Patient Profile, USCDI mapping, and guidance.
   - Remove the [Patient Sex Parameter For Clinical Use Extension](http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/patient-sexParameterForClinicalUse) from the US Core Patient Profile, USCDI mapping, and guidance.
   - Redefine the [US Core Sex Extension](StructureDefinition-us-core-sex.html) and update its binding to [Federal Administrative Sex](https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/valueset/2.16.840.1.113762.1.4.1021.121/expansion/Latest)
   - Update US Core Patient Profile guidance
   - Replace "gender" with "sex" throughout the narrative sections of the guide.
- To promote the visibility of the future direction of US Core, we created a new [Looking Ahead](looking-ahead.html) menu tab with the menu items:
  - [US Core Roadmap](us-core-roadmap.html): Existing content moved from the renamed Future of US Core page
   - [Writing Vital Signs](writing-vital-signs.html): Existing content moved from the renamed Future of US Core page
   - [Patient Data Feed](patient-data-feed.html): New optional feature for servers implementing US Core. It allows clients to receive FHIR Subscription Notifications when events occur related to US Core content.
- We updated and corrected the [individual provenance guidelines](basic-provenance.html#individual-level-provenance), adding new *Additional USCDI* elements representing the author to:
  -  [US Core AllergyIntolerance Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-allergyintolerance.html)
  -  [US Core Condition Encounter Diagnosis Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-condition-encounter-diagnosis.html)
  -  [US Core Condition Problems and Health Concerns Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-condition-problems-health-concerns.html)
  -  [US Core CarePlan Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-careplan.html)
  -  [US Core Observation Occupation Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-occupation.html)
  -  [US Core Care Experience Preference Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-care-experience-preference.html)
  -  [US Core Treatment Intervention Preference Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-treatment-intervention-preference.html)
- We continue our efforts to align terminology between US Core and [HL7 C-CDA] and link terminology directly to the FHIR® Terminology Service for VSAC Resources ([Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)]) or [HL7 Terminology (THO)] where applicable.  The following ValueSets has been moved:
  
   |Pre 8.0.0 US Core ValueSet|8.0.0-Ballot ValueSet|THO/VSAC|
   |---|---|---|
   | [Language codes with language and optionally a region modifier](https://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU7/ValueSet-simple-language.html)|[Languages](http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/Languages)|THO|
   {:.grid}