1. We added a new [Requirements Table](requirements.html) page and [Requirements Resources](capability-statements.html) for implementers using this guide, listing requirements from the US Core Implementation Guide’s narrative sections. These requirements represent regulatory, business, functional, and technical specifications that design artifacts must meet for interoperability. We also made editorial changes to the narrative, using the correct conformance verbs.
2. Following ballot feedback reconciliation and input from ONC, we removed the proposed [US Core PMO ServiceRequest Profile](https://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/2026Jan/StructureDefinition-us-core-pmo-servicerequest.html) from US Core, and added guidance to the [US Core ServiceRequest Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-servicerequest.html) on how clinical orders can be derived from a Portable Medical Order (PMO).
3. As indicated in the ballot, we added links to annually updated [Value Set Packages](terminology.html#value-set-packages). These updates contain expanded value sets required for US Core version 6.1.0, 8.0.1, and 9.0.0.
4. In prior versions of US Core, we introduced the FHIR R5 Additional Binding profile data structure for coded elements. However, in several cases, it did not accurately communicate our intent. To correct this, we removed the structure from the profiles and updated the narrative guidance and requirements.  We will revisit adopting the Additional Binding structure when it is more mature, and its meaning is commonly understood by implementers.  See Changes Here:
    - [US Core Condition Encounter Diagnosis Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-condition-encounter-diagnosis.html)
    - [US Core Condition Problems and Health Concerns Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-condition-problems-health-concerns.html)
    - [US Core Procedure Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-procedure.html)
    - [US Core Location Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-location.html)
    - [US Core PractitionerRole Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-practitionerrole.html)
    - [US Core Goal Profile](StructureDefinition-us-core-goal.html)
5. We continue aligning terminology between US Core and [HL7 C-CDA] and, where needed, linking it to the FHIR® Terminology Service for VSAC Resources ([Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)]) or [HL7 Terminology (THO)]. The following value set has been moved:

   |Pre 9.0.0 US Core ValueSet|9.0.0 ValueSet|THO/VSAC|
   |---|---|---|
   | [Patient Relationship Type](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/valueset-relatedperson-relationshiptype.html)|[Personal And Legal Relationship Role Type](https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/valueset/2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.12.1/expansion/Latest)|VSAC|
   {:.grid}