
This page lists all the ValueSets, CodeSystems, and ConceptMaps defined as part of the US Core Implementation Guide. For more information on using codes in US Core, see the [FHIR Terminology] section in the FHIR specification and the [Coded Elements] section in this guide.

<div class="bg-success" markdown="1">

### US Core ValueSet and CodeSystem versions

Terminology is central to US Core. Code systems and value sets change over time, independent of or due to the US Core's annual updates. These changes include adding, deprecating, or retiring code, as well as updating code definitions. In large code systems or value sets, these changes may go unnoticed; however, for smaller enumerated terminologies, they can be obvious and lead to breaking changes.

Every published version of US Core also publishes a snapshot of the latest versions of code systems and value sets, along with their expansions, at the time of publication. However, US Core does not "pin" the terminology to a specific version of US Core, so the canonical references point to their latest versions. For example, in US Core version 6.1.0, the US Core Laboratory Test Codes link to version 6.1.0 of the ValueSet. However, its canonical URI, `http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/ValueSet/us-core-laboratory-test-codes`, resolves to the latest published version of the valueset; in other words, it links to this version of US Core's valueset. The "Unpinned" terminology more accurately reflects real-world usage of US Core. When implementing US Core, implementers should use the published versions or later versions of the value sets and code systems. In some cases, implementers may need to use terminology from earlier versions to preserve legacy data.

##### Value Set Packages

The packages will be available by the US Core 9.0.0 publication date.
{: .note-to-balloters}

A Value Set Package contains all the expanded value sets required for an implementation guide. In addition to the packages published with US Core, annual value set packages containing value sets expanded with the updated code system versions will be available for the following US Core Versions to assist implementers who require them.

US Core 6.1.0 (published June 2023)

  - [US Core 6.1.0 Value Set Package - 2023-06](#)
  - [US Core 6.1.0 Value Set Package - 2024-05](#)
  - [US Core 6.1.0 Value Set Package - 2025-05](#)
  - [US Core 6.1.0 Value Set Package - 2026-05](#)

US Core 8.0.1 (published June 2025)

  - [US Core 8.0.1 Value Set Package - 2023-06](#)
  - [US Core 8.0.1 Value Set Package - 2026-05](#)

US Core 9.0.0 (published June 2026)

  - [US Core 9.0.0 Value Set Package - 2026-05](#)

For more information on Value Set Package and how they are created and used, see the [Value Set Package Implementation Guide](https://build.fhir.org/ig/cqframework/vsp-ig/)

</div><!-- new-content -->

### Value Sets

Most value sets used in this guide are defined in the base FHIR specification, [HL7 Terminology (THO)], or <span class="bg-success" markdown="1">the [Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)]. </span><!-- new-content -->However, US Core also defines several value sets and they are listed below.

Value sets in US Core and C-CDA may retain inactive codes. These codes may be useful for historical queries but are not recommended for new data. Implementers should note that some code systems exclude inactive codes from current expansions; if needed, these codes may be accessible through prior expansions via terminology services. HL7 recommends validators allow non-active codes with note on their status.
{:.bg-info}

<!-- ================================================ -->
<!--  use this line to include an autogenerated list of all profiles and highlight new ones using the input/data/new_stuff.yml list. Remove it if you would like to hand generate it -->

{% include res-list-generator.md type="ValueSet" %}

<!-- ================================================ -->

#### Value Sets Used in US Core

The following table lists all the Value sets used in US Core and where they can be found. This information is also available as a [csv](tables/valueset-ref-all-list.csv) or [excel](tables/valueset-ref-all-list.xlsx) file.

{% include valueset-ref-all-table-generator.html %}

### Code Systems

See the [FHIR terminology section]({{site.data.fhir.path}}terminologies-systems.html) for a complete discussion on code systems and a list of code system names used in FHIR. Most code systems used in this guide are defined in the base FHIR specification<span class="bg-success" markdown="1"> or [HL7 Terminology (THO)]. </span><!-- new-content -->However, the following code systems are unique to this guide and not listed in the base FHIR specification. If a URI is listed here, it **SHALL** be used in the US Core profiles to identify the code system in preference to any other code system URI.

#### US Core Defined Code Systems

<!-- ================================================ -->
<!--  use this line to include an autogenerated list of all profiles and highlight new ones using the input/data/new_stuff.yml list. Remove it if you would like to hand generate it -->

{% include res-list-generator.md type="CodeSystem" %}

<!-- ================================================ -->

#### Code System Used in US Core

The following table lists all the CodeSystems used in US Core and where they can be found. This information is also available as a [csv](tables/codesystem-ref-all-list.csv) or [excel](tables/codesystem-ref-all-list.xlsx) file.

{% include codesystem-ref-all-table-generator.html %}


### The Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)

This guide links terminology directly to the FHIR® Terminology Service for VSAC Resources ([Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)]), where applicable, using a RESTful API service to access the VSAC value sets and supported code systems. See the table above for a list of value sets used in US Core that VSAC defines.


####   How to Acess Value Sets in VSAC


  -  VSAC requires login using your own *UMLS API Key* to view the value sets. [VSAC UMLS Licensing information](https://www.nlm.nih.gov/vsac/support/usingvsac/requestumlslicense.html). (See the screenshots below)
  - The value sets in VSAC are specified using a VSAC value set OID.
  - To view the value set expansion in the VSAC user interface, use:

      `GET https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/ValueSet/[VSAC OID]/expansion`

    An example of this is shown in the screenshots below.

    When viewing a ValueSet in the VSAC UI, the Code System OIDs and VSAC Code System names are displayed for each code. However, these code system identifiers **SHOULD NOT** be used. The FHIR URIs code systems are defined as part of FHIR and **SHOULD** be used instead. Unfortunately, the FHIR URI for the code system is not shown. As a convenience for the reader, a [VSAC to FHIR Code System Mapping Table] is provided, which maps the VSAC Code System names to the corresponding FHIR URI. For more information, see this [documentation](https://www.nlm.nih.gov/vsac/support/usingvsac/vsacname-fhirname-fhirtitle.html) describing the relationships between the VSAC value set name, FHIR value set name, and FHIR value set title and how to access VSAC's FHIR API.

  - To fetch the FHIR ValueSet resource (in other words, the value set definition), use:

       `GET https://cts.nlm.nih.gov/fhir/ValueSet/[VSAC OID]`

  - To fetch the FHIR ValueSet resource expansion, use the FHIR `$expand` operation:

       `GET https://cts.nlm.nih.gov/fhir/ValueSet/[VSAC OID]/$expand`

For more information, refer to the [FHIR Terminology Service for VSAC Resources](https://www.nlm.nih.gov/vsac/support/usingvsac/vsacfhirapi.html)

##### Example

For example, the [US Core Smoking Status Observation Profile] `valueCodeableConcept` element has a preferred binding to the Smoking Status value set. To access it in VSAC, click on the link to `https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/valueset/2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.38/expansion`:

 {% include img.html img="vsac-1.png" caption="Figure 1: VSAC link" %}

The reader is redirected to the VSAC login page to enter an API Key (only one login is required per session):

 {% include img.html img="vsac-2.png" caption="Figure 2: VSAC API-Key Login" %}

After successfully entering the API Key, the value set can be inspected, downloaded, etc., using the VSAC User interface, as shown in the figure below. This FHIR ValueSet resource can also be fetched using the URL `https://cts.nlm.nih.gov/fhir/ValueSet/2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.38`, and the FHIR ValueSet expansion using the URL `https://cts.nlm.nih.gov/fhir/ValueSet/2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.38/$expand`.

 {% include img.html img="vsac-3.png" caption="Figure 3: VSAC Smoking Status ValueSet" %}


{% include link-list.md %}
