{% raw %} <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-direct.html">US Core Direct email Extension</a> <p>This email address is associated with a <a href="http://wiki.directproject.org/Addressing+Specification">direct</a> service.  This extension can only be used on contact points where the system = 'email'</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-race.html">US Core Race Extension</a> <p>Concepts classifying the person into a named category of humans sharing common history, traits, geographical origin or nationality.  The race codes used to represent these concepts are based upon the <a href="http://www.cdc.gov/phin/resources/vocabulary/index.html">CDC Race and Ethnicity Code Set Version 1.0</a> which includes over 900 concepts for representing race and ethnicity of which 921 reference race.  The race concepts are grouped by and pre-mapped to the 5 OMB race categories:</p>
<ul>
<li>American Indian or Alaska Native</li>
<li>Asian</li>
<li>Black or African American</li>
<li>Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander</li>
<li>White.</li>
</ul>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-birthsex.html">US Core Birth Sex Extension</a> <p>A code classifying the person's sex assigned at birth  as specified by the <a href="https://www.healthit.gov/newsroom/about-onc">Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT (ONC)</a>. This extension aligns with the C-CDA Birth Sex Observation (LOINC 76689-9).</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-genderIdentity.html">US Core Gender Identity Extension</a> <p>This extension provides concepts to describe the gender a person identifies as.</p>
</li>
 <li><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-ethnicity.html">US Core Ethnicity Extension</a> <p>Concepts classifying the person into a named category of humans sharing common history, traits, geographical origin or nationality.  The ethnicity codes used to represent these concepts are based upon the <a href="http://www.cdc.gov/phin/resources/vocabulary/index.html">CDC ethnicity and Ethnicity Code Set Version 1.0</a> which includes over 900 concepts for representing race and ethnicity of which 43 reference ethnicity.  The ethnicity concepts are grouped by and pre-mapped to the 2 OMB ethnicity categories: - Hispanic or Latino - Not Hispanic or Latino.</p>
</li>
{% endraw %}