{% raw %} <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-allergyintolerance.json.html">US Core AllergyIntolerance Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the AllergyIntolerance resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve allergy information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-bmi.json.html">US Core BMI Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent Body Mass Index (BMI) observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-birthsex.json.html">US Core Birth Sex Extension</a> </td><td><p>A code classifying the person's sex assigned at birth  as specified by the <a href="https://www.healthit.gov/newsroom/about-onc">Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT (ONC)</a>. This extension aligns with the C-CDA Birth Sex Observation (LOINC 76689-9).</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-blood-pressure.json.html">US Core Blood Pressure Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent diastolic and systolic blood pressure observations with standard LOINC codes and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-body-height.json.html">US Core Body Height Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent body height observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-body-temperature.json.html">US Core Body Temperature Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent body temperature observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-body-weight.json.html">US Core Body Weight Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent body weight observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-careplan.json.html">US Core CarePlan Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the CarePlan resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve a patient's Care Plan.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-careteam.json.html">US Core CareTeam Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the CareTeam resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve a patient's Care Team.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-clinical-test.json.html">US Core Clinical Test Result Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Observation resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve clinical test results</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-condition.json.html">US Core Condition Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Condition resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve problems and health concerns information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-lab.json.html">US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the DiagnosticReport resource  for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve diagnostic reports associated with laboratory results for a patient</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-diagnosticreport-note.json.html">US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Report and Note exchange</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the DiagnosticReport resource  for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve diagnostic reports associated with clinical notes for a patient</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-direct.json.html">US Core Direct email Extension</a> </td><td><p>This email address is associated with a <a href="http://wiki.directproject.org/Addressing+Specification">direct</a> service.  This extension can only be used on contact points where the system = 'email'</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-documentreference.json.html">US Core DocumentReference Profile</a> </td><td><p>The document reference profile used in US Core.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-encounter.json.html">US Core Encounter Profile</a> </td><td><p>The Encounter referenced in the US Core profiles.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-ethnicity.json.html">US Core Ethnicity Extension</a> </td><td><p>Concepts classifying the person into a named category of humans sharing common history, traits, geographical origin or nationality.  The ethnicity codes used to represent these concepts are based upon the <a href="http://www.cdc.gov/phin/resources/vocabulary/index.html">CDC ethnicity and Ethnicity Code Set Version 1.0</a> which includes over 900 concepts for representing race and ethnicity of which 43 reference ethnicity.  The ethnicity concepts are grouped by and pre-mapped to the 2 OMB ethnicity categories: - Hispanic or Latino - Not Hispanic or Latino.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-genderIdentity.json.html">US Core Gender Identity Extension</a> </td><td><p>This extension provides concepts to describe the gender a person identifies as.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-goal.json.html">US Core Goal Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Goal resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve a patient's goal(s).</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-head-circumference.json.html">US Core Head Circumference Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent head circumference observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-heart-rate.json.html">US Core Heart Rate Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent heart rate observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-imaging.json.html">US Core Imaging Result Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Observation resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve structured and unstructured (narrative) components of imaging test results. These observations include reasons, findings, and impressions.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-immunization.json.html">US Core Immunization Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Immunization resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve  patient's immunization information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-implantable-device.json.html">US Core Implantable Device Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Device resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve a patient's implantable device(s).</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-lab.json.html">US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Observation resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve laboratory test results</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-location.json.html">US Core Location Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines basic constraints and extensions on the Location resource for use with other US Core resources</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-medication.json.html">US Core Medication Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Medication resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve patient retrieving patient's medication information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-medicationrequest.json.html">US Core MedicationRequest Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the MedicationRequest resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve prescription information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-screening-response.json.html">US Core Screening Response Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Profile for observations that represent question and answer pairs from from surveys/questionnaires such as Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) screening instruments.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-social-history-assessment.json.html">US Core Social History Assessment Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Profile for simple observations made by an individual about a patient's social history status such as education, food insecurity, etc.  These observation involve assessment by a provider, payer, etc. as opposed to being derived only from screening surveys which should be represented using the <a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-screening-response.html">US Core Screening Response Observation Profile</a></p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-organization.json.html">US Core Organization Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines basic constraints and extensions on the Organization resource for use with other US Core resources</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.json.html">US Core Patient Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the patient resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve patient demographic information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-pediatric-bmi-for-age.json.html">US Core Pediatric BMI for Age Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent to represent BMI percentile per age and sex for youth 2-20 observations in FHIR using a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-head-occipital-frontal-circumference-percentile.json.html">US Core Pediatric Head Occipital-frontal Circumference Percentile Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on the Observation resource to represent head occipital-frontal circumference percentile for patients from birth to 36 months of age in FHIR using a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-pediatric-weight-for-height.json.html">US Core Pediatric Weight for Height Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on the Observation resource to represent pediatric Weight-for-length per age and gender observations in FHIR with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-practitioner.json.html">US Core Practitioner Profile</a> </td><td><p>The practitioner(s) referenced in US Core profiles.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-practitionerrole.json.html">US Core PractitionerRole Profile</a> </td><td><p>The practitioner roles referenced in the US Core profiles.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-procedure.json.html">US Core Procedure Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Procedure resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve patient's procedure information. This profile can be used to record a service or intervention that is or was performed on or for a patient.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-provenance.json.html">US Core Provenance Profile</a> </td><td><p>Draft set of requirements to satisfy Basic Provenance Requirements.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-pulse-oximetry.json.html">US Core Pulse Oximetry Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on the Observation resource to represent inspired O2 by pulse oximetry and inspired oxygen concentration observations with a standard LOINC codes and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-race.json.html">US Core Race Extension</a> </td><td><p>Concepts classifying the person into a named category of humans sharing common history, traits, geographical origin or nationality.  The race codes used to represent these concepts are based upon the <a href="http://www.cdc.gov/phin/resources/vocabulary/index.html">CDC Race and Ethnicity Code Set Version 1.0</a> which includes over 900 concepts for representing race and ethnicity of which 921 reference race.  The race concepts are grouped by and pre-mapped to the 5 OMB race categories:</p>
<ul>
<li>American Indian or Alaska Native</li>
<li>Asian</li>
<li>Black or African American</li>
<li>Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander</li>
<li>White.</li>
</ul>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-relatedperson.json.html">US Core Related Person</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the RelatedPerson resource on the patient resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve demographic information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-respiratory-rate.json.html">US Core Respiratory Rate Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on Observation to represent respiratory rate observations with a standard LOINC code and UCUM units of measure. This profile is derived from the US Core Vital Signs Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-servicerequest.json.html">US Core Service Request</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the ServiceRequest resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve orders associated with diagnostic and clinical tests and clinical interventions for a patient</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-observation-sexual-orientation.json.html">US Core Sexual Orientation Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Observation resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve a Patient's Sexual Orientation.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-smokingstatus.json.html">US Core Smoking Status Observation Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints and extensions on the Observation  resource for the minimal set of data to query and retrieve patient's Smoking Status information.</p>
</td></tr>
 <tr><td><a href="StructureDefinition-us-core-vital-signs.json.html">US Core Vital Signs Profile</a> </td><td><p>Defines constraints on the Observation resource to represent vital signs observations.  This profile is used as the base definition for the other US Core Vital Signs Profiles and based on the FHIR VitalSigns Profile.</p>
</td></tr>
{% endraw %}